# Transistor Analysis Using Sky130 openpdk

Hi, this is a very basic work into the back-end designing of any VLSI project. In this project we are discussing about the first steps for desiging any circuit into the IC level. Here I am starting with the discussion of standard 1.8V NMOS and PMOS transistors along with their respective graphs and also tried to do the layout desiging.

I am open to any of the suggestions making this more optimized or readable and also to all my VLSI enthusiasts, I am looking forward for some constructive critisims too. 😄

# Table of Contents
- [Introduction To The Tools](#introduction-to-the-tools)
- [What is PDK](#what-is-pdk)
- [Installation Of The Tools](#isntallation-of-the-tools)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Introduction To The Tools
 Firstly before starting we need to discuss about the different set of tools that we are using, in our project. Following is the list of tools we used for the analysis:
- **Xschem**: Schematic design. Basically this tool is used for designing the schematic of our circuits. It is similar to what we perform in PSpice or LTSpice softwares. However being a open source tool we need some more setups to design the circuits and simulate them. In this tool we basically design the circuit keeping close approximation to the theoritical concepts, which we later verify practically.
- **Magic**: Layout design. After finishing our design, we come over to the layout designing of our circuit. This layout design is based on the constraints provided by the process development kit(in our case it is sky130). The layout designed can actually be considered as the practical scenario of our circuit. 
- **Ngspice**: Circuit simulation. This tool is actually responsible for performing all the details of our circuit. In simple words, if we want to define the SPICE language, it is similar to that of the machine code. The purpose of SPICE language is to model our circuit into a format which is easily understandable globally.
- **Netgen**: LVS verification. LVS stands for Layout Versus Schematic. This tool is used to compare the spice files generated by our schematic capture tool and the layout design tool and to verify that our layout resembles our schematic actually.

You can further deep dive into each of the tools and learn more about them and their usage.

## What is PDK? 

A **PDK** (Process Design Kit) is a collection of files and tools that provide the necessary information for designing integrated circuits (ICs) or semiconductor devices for a specific manufacturing process. It includes design rules, models, libraries, and other resources that help engineers create designs that can be fabricated using a particular process. Here in our case we have used a open-source PDK provided by Skywater technologies and Google working on the 130nm node, that is the minimum feature size has to be 130 nm for the fabrication.

### Key Components of a PDK

1. **Design Rules**  
   Specifications that define the limitations and requirements for layout geometry, such as minimum feature sizes, spacing between elements, and other physical constraints.

2. **Technology Files**  
   Descriptions of the layers, materials, and other parameters that define the fabrication process (e.g., types of metals, dielectrics, and transistors).

3. **SPICE Models**  
   Simulation models of the transistors and other components in the process, used for circuit simulation.

4. **Standard Cell Libraries**  
   Pre-designed and characterized digital components (e.g., logic gates, flip-flops) that can be used in IC designs.

5. **Process Flow**  
   Describes the steps required to fabricate devices using the process, such as photolithography, etching, and deposition.

### Purpose of a PDK

PDKs are essential for creating designs that are compatible with the capabilities and limitations of the chosen fabrication process. They help ensure that designs are manufacturable and perform as intended when built.


## Installation Of The Tools
Here comes the hectic part of the process. Installation of the open source tools. However I have provided with some scripts that can be used for the installation process.
**Reminder:** All the development is done in linux environment. So you have to either use Linux distro, or can use VMs and WSL also. (I personally worked in Ubuntu 24.04 LTS)

First install using install1.sh file for all the tools and install2.sh for the installation of opendpdk.

```bash
chmod +x script_name.sh  # Make the script executable #Do this for both the scripts
./script_name.sh         # Execute the script
```

# Contributing
Guidelines for contributing to the project.

# License
Details about the license for this project.

